# New Beatles song: Exciting or weird?

### INTRODUCTION

In this week’s edition of “AI: good or bad?” we have a brand-new Beatles song, “Now and Then.” It’s an abandoned John Lennon demo that artificial intelligence rescued technologically and then enhanced with a little help from some friends – Paul McCartney and Ringo Starr.

In some ways, it’s a triumph. But there’s also an inescapable “uh, what next?” vibe. If AI can help edit people out of our beach photos or bring back the Beatles, how long until we get a new Ella Fitzgerald album? And is that exciting – or just plain weird?

We wrote on AI and cars this week. Look for our story next week on how musicians are using AI in innovative ways that are perhaps a bit less existentially ambiguous.

# As Iran’s ‘axis’ activates, risk of a wider Mideast war

### INTRODUCTION

You won’t get more than a few sentences into this story before one thing becomes obvious: The militants backed by Iran are eager to join the fight against Israel. To what degree will that happen? Will the war expand? That could depend largely on how Iran manages these groups.

### QUICK READ

Whether the war between Hamas and Israel in the Gaza Strip broadens into a regional conflict depends in large part on whether or not Iran’s allies, what it calls the “Axis of Resistance,” choose to join the battle, and at what level.

The jewel in the crown of that “axis” is the Lebanese Hezbollah, which has an estimated arsenal of more than 150,000 missiles. On Friday, in his much-anticipated first public comments since Hamas’ Oct. 7 attack, Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah said his fighters had taken a calculated “risk” to tie down Israel to benefit Hamas.

“Whoever wants to prevent a regional war,” he warned, “and I am talking to the Americans, must quickly halt the aggression on Gaza.”

Iran’s “axis” faces divergent scenarios, analysts say.

“If the Israelis don’t topple Hamas in Gaza ... then it would be a major victory for the whole ‘Axis of Resistance,’” says Fabian Hinz, at the International Institute for Strategic Studies.

But the sheer scale of the Hamas attack may prove to be a “major miscalculation,” he says, by triggering such a powerful Israeli response against Hamas that possibly no action – even from Hezbollah – could stop it. If the “axis” is “not able to deter the Israelis from marching into Gaza, it is a major setback,” he says.

### DEEP_READ

Near Lebanon’s border with Israel, a Hezbollah missile specialist now braces for war like never before.

Wearing black tactical trousers, green camouflage, and a pistol – capped by a fatigued look that is by turns elated and anxious – the officer in the Iran-backed Shiite militia says his morale and expectations of imminent battle could not be higher.

That is because he believes Hamas’ surprise Oct. 7 raid, which left 1,400 Israelis dead and triggered an Israeli ground assault into Gaza, is heralding a broader, long-awaited fight against Israel and its staunch American ally by every regional armed wing of Iran’s self-declared “Axis of Resistance.”

“Oct. 7: We can call it the day of the beginning of the fall of Israel; that makes our morale shoot sky high,” says the Hezbollah veteran of 22 years, who gives the name Hassan.

“We can assure you, as Hezbollah, when we do receive the order to intervene and take sides with Hamas against the Israelis, immediately you will see the difference,” Hassan says. “We are definitely going to put a stop to all these massacres committed by the Israelis against the Palestinians.”

Indeed, from Yemen to Iraq and Syria to Lebanon, the range of offensive moves taken so far by the Iran-backed factions – which have been cultivated, armed, and supported for decades by the Quds Force of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps – indicates that they have already been activated.

The jewel in the crown of that “axis” is the Lebanese Hezbollah, which is battle-hardened after a decade of war in Syria and has an estimated arsenal of more than 150,000 missiles that has for years ensured mutual deterrence with Israel.

Yet orders for an all-out Hezbollah assault on Israel were not announced Friday in Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah’s much-anticipated first public comments since Oct. 7.

Mr. Nasrallah’s fiery rhetoric decried American “hypocrisy” and claimed there was no more critical fight than “against these Zionists,” but it masked a careful effort to navigate competing priorities and motivations for Iran, Hezbollah, and the other factions.

Hezbollah had increased its operations “day by day,” he said, taking a calculated “risk” to tie down Israeli troops to benefit Hamas.

“We are ready for all possibilities,” Mr. Nasrallah said. “Whoever wants to prevent a regional war, and I am talking to the Americans, must quickly halt the aggression on Gaza.”

Iran has applauded the Hamas assault, which harnessed years of clandestine Iranian support with arms, cash, and weapons-building technology to inflict the gravest attack on the Jewish state since its founding in 1948.

But the shock of that savage attack has also prompted a ferocious Israeli response, including more than 10,000 air and missile strikes – and a ground offensive bent on destroying Hamas altogether. Some 9,000 people have been reported killed in Gaza since Oct. 7.

Already Yemen’s Shiite Houthi rebels have fired three batches of missiles and drones more than 1,000 miles toward Israel. Iran-backed Shiite militias in Syria and Iraq have likewise mounted dozens of attacks against American troops in those countries.

And Hezbollah has engaged with Israel in attacks that are gradually claiming more lives on both sides and expanding deeper into each other’s territory – including simultaneous strikes Thursday against 19 Israeli targets.

## Iran: Success vs. setback

“If the Israelis don’t topple Hamas in Gaza, if they do a ground incursion and then withdraw, then it would be a major victory for the whole ‘Axis of Resistance,’” says Fabian Hinz, a Berlin-based expert on Iranian and regional missile capabilities at the International Institute for Strategic Studies.

For the Iran-backed militias, past progress has usually been measured by episodes of conflict that afterwards created new levels of deterrence and capabilities against Israel, he says, without going so far as to risk the destruction of any single group.

But the sheer scale of the Hamas attack may prove to be a “major miscalculation,” says Mr. Hinz, by changing that gradual trajectory and triggering such a powerful Israeli response against Hamas that possibly no action – even from Hezbollah – could stop it.

“This carefully built-up deterrence ... [leading] to Hamas having tens of thousands of rockets and being able to make a ground incursion – basically all of that was gambled away by Hamas in that attack,” adds Mr. Hinz.

“If you [the ‘axis’] are not able to deter the Israelis from marching into Gaza, it is a major setback,” he says. “It’s a very high-stakes game.”

The Palestinian cause and anti-Israel venom have been an ideological pillar of Iran’s leadership since the 1979 Islamic Revolution. Iranian officials boast that Palestinian militants, who once fought with stones, knives, and slingshots, today use rockets, ballistic missiles, and drones from Iran – in a transformation that Iran has repeated across its proxy militias.

“The hands of all parties in the region are on the trigger,” Iranian Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian warned last week, as Israeli tanks moved into Gaza.

## Iran’s caculations

Iran has denied any direct role in the Hamas raid. Yet in the current battle, Hamas leaders have called on Hezbollah and Iran to do more to help them.

“I don’t think the Iranians want to sacrifice Hezbollah on the altar of Hamas, because at the end of the day, Hezbollah is a prime component of Iran’s deterrent strategy,” says Nicholas Blanford, a Beirut-based Hezbollah expert with the Atlantic Council.

“If you tell Hezbollah to go full-on with Israel, irrespective of the outcome, Hezbollah is going to take a battering, and there is no guarantee they’ll be able to reequip and rearm as quickly as they did after 2006, to continue serving as deterrence for Iran,” says Mr. Blanford, author of “Warrior of God: Inside Hezbollah’s Thirty-Year Struggle Against Israel.”

“I sense cooler heads prevailing for now, but that is a logical assessment,” he says. “I think the Iranians are logical, but the calculus may change, given the carnage in Gaza.

“I can see a lot more activity” along the Lebanon-Israel border, such as drone attacks, limited incursions, and ambushes, “to keep it all bubbling along,” says Mr. Blanford. He notes that Hezbollah’s options short of all-out war include “many, many shades of gray.”

The rockets and drones fired by Yemen’s Houthis have so far all been shot down, either by American warships in the Red Sea or Israel, or landed in Egypt or Jordan. But Abdelaziz bin Habtour, the prime minister of the Houthi government that controls Yemen’s capital, Sanaa, said this week that Houthi forces would continue strikes as “part of the ‘Axis of Resistance.’”

There is “one ‘axis,’ and there is coordination taking place, a joint operations room, and a joint command for all these operations,” the Houthi politician said.

## What the Houthis gain

“This is Iran’s investment in the Houthis manifesting itself,” says Nadwa al-Dawsari, a Yemen expert with the Middle East Institute in Washington.

“The Houthis were guerrilla fighters in the remote north of Yemen, but the Iranians have been training them for at least the last 20 years, [with] IRGC [Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps] and Quds Force commanders on the ground, helping them develop missile and drone technology,” says Ms. Dawsari.

“Iran has made the Houthis what they are,” she says.

At the same time, taking part in the fight against Israel as part of Iran’s transnational “axis” also serves the Houthis at home, where criticism has grown over their ineffective rule during a year and a half of relative peace.

“Internally, the Houthis need war, in order to justify controlling the population without governing, so this is like a dream come true,” says Ms. Dawsari. “It is also a great opportunity for the Houthis to gain popularity and recruit fighters.”

Closer to Israel, on Lebanon’s southern border, Hezbollah missile expert Hassan – whom friends say is a “true believer” – recalls telling the Monitor in Beirut in August that his “main fear is to die without liberating Palestine – but we can see it getting closer.”

After Oct. 7, what did Hassan tell his family, when he left for this southern front?

“I told my family: Pray for me. God willing, I may become a martyr on the road to Palestine.”

A Lebanese researcher contributed to this report from near the Lebanon-Israel border.

# Antisemitism on the rise: Three charts on religious-based hate

### INTRODUCTION

Around the world, officials are seeing an uptick in antisemitism. Understandably, people have been watching the trend closely since the start of the Israel-Hamas war. But religious-based hate crimes have been on the rise for years – against Muslim Americans, too, for example. The need for vigilance is great in this moment, but also beyond it.

### QUICK READ

From graffiti and online threats to physical assaults, antisemitic attacks appear to be on the rise since Hamas’ Oct. 7 assault on Israeli civilians.

On Friday, the Israeli government warned citizens to avoid outward displays of their Jewish identity as antisemitic attacks tick upward around the world, and in Germany, officials responded to rising numbers of antisemitic incidents with warnings that they would be prosecuted as crimes.

Perceived spikes in antisemitism this October also follow a series of record-setting years in the United States. In 2022, the Anti-Defamation League tracked an average of 10 antisemitic incidents a day, the most since its founding in 1979.

That 2022 high is backed by FBI data, which shows multiple spikes in antisemitic crimes in recent years. FBI Director Christopher Wray told a Senate hearing Tuesday that the threat is reaching “sort of historic levels.”

Prior to Oct. 7, the rise of antisemitic incidents was driven mostly by the country’s growing numbers of white nationalist and supremacist groups. Five years ago, a white nationalist shooter killed 11 worshippers and wounded six others at the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh – the worst act of antisemitic violence in U.S. history.

Violent extremists in the U.S. have targeted both Jewish and Muslim communities in the past, Mr. Wray said, noting also that the recent fatal stabbing of a 6-year-old Palestinian American boy in Illinois – along with his mother, who survived – is being investigated as a federal hate crime. The Council on American-Islamic Relations in Washington says it received almost 800 complaints of anti-Muslim bigotry from Oct. 7 to Oct. 28, the most in eight years and a 245% increase from the same period last year.

“This is not a time for panic, but it is a time for vigilance,” Mr. Wray said. “We shouldn’t stop conducting our daily lives – going to schools, houses of worship, and so forth – but we should be vigilant.”

– Harry Bruinius, staff writer

# Why one grandmother’s house has become a national cause

### INTRODUCTION

Property has always been a primary path to wealth, with Black Americans and other marginalized communities historically struggling to fend off forces that would take theirs. But there are signs of a shift to protect these groups’ land and heritage, and one woman’s case has caught national attention.

### QUICK READ

Josephine Wright’s story is a story of the South Carolina Lowcountry. Once a center of Black land ownership in the United States, the region has seen much of that ownership disappear due to development and historical discrimination. Ms. Wright is determined that the trend stop at her property line. She says she’s not moving, however much a developer might like her land.

But her story is also a story of America writ large, where property has always been power, and has flowed to the powerful. From white communities in Appalachia to Native communities in the West, marginalized groups have been systematically dispossessed of property for centuries. Still, courts and local governments are starting to fight back.

New laws are making it harder for predatory land prospectors to strike low-ball deals with distant heirs. And here in South Carolina, the county introduced heritage zoning to protect people who have lived on the land for generations, like Ms. Wright.

“This isn’t just about money, but ... who we are,” says one of her granddaughters, Tracey Love Graves. “The struggle isn’t isolated to history or some remote island. In fact, where isn’t this happening?”

### DEEP_READ

For Tracey Love Graves, the childhood memory has the gauze of a fairytale: crossing the causeway at night, a turn down a gravel road, massive oak branches reaching across the car like claws in the moonlight.

Ms. Love Graves, a film actress, arches her arms and fingers into a canopy as she tells the story. Trepidation, she says, turned to relief when the car slipped into the driveway of the island homestead of Josephine Wright, her grandmother.

That formative sense of shelter runs strong for Ms. Love Graves, the youngest of Ms. Wright’s 40 grandchildren. Today, however, the oaks along the road have long been felled along with much of the maritime forest in which she played as a child. The threat now, she says, is no longer in her imagination. It is a developer suing Ms. Wright, who is now in her 90s, in a bid, the family believes, to force a sale to complete a large subdivision of high-end homes.

But Ms. Wright has fought back. She has built a coalition that includes the hip-hop legend Snoop Dogg and Atlanta film tycoon Tyler Perry, who has said Ms. Wright’s determination reminds him of his own grandmother. Recently, he even vowed to build her a new home. Ms. Love Graves calls her grandmother “a gentle force, always a presence.”

Ms. Wright’s story has resonated because “this isn’t just about money, but ... who we are,” says Ms. Love Graves in an interview in her grandmother’s front yard. “The struggle isn’t isolated to history or some remote island. In fact, where isn’t this happening?”

## Black land loss

Property has always been a vital way for Americans to accrue wealth, and since Reconstruction, Black landowners have been systematically dispossessed of theirs. In 1910, Black farmers owned some 16 million acres, according to an American Bar Association study. Now, they own only 10% of that land.

The means of Black land loss are many and varied. Through Jim Crow, Black landowners were killed or violently thrown off their land. Local governments and banks have historically used discriminatory practices. And businesses have swooped in to take advantage of complex laws and cases in which heirs dispute ownership to pick apart properties piece by piece.

The problem extends beyond rural America and beyond Black America. As a primal element of power, land has flowed from the weak to the strong for centuries. White communities in Appalachia and Hispanic and Native American communities in the Southwest see the same trends. But increasingly, forces are aligning around these underserved communities to help them maintain control of their land. And Ms. Wright’s story, though not concluded, shows elements of that shift.

“We live in a country which has always seen land as the major source of wealth, and, as a result, there are a bunch of people both empowered and disempowered – we’re now living with 300 years of that having played out,” says Scott Schang, director of the Heirs’ Property Project at Wake Forest University School of Law in Winston Salem, North Carolina.

“What’s changed,” he adds, “is suddenly some people have rights again, and now you’re trying to untangle a legal system that tries very hard to make sure property ownership is clear and uninterrupted – and that’s clashing with people trying to save not only their wealth but also their sense of identity and culture.”

There are common denominators in heirs’ property losses, says sociologist Ryan Thomson at Auburn University in Alabama. The first is the marginal status of owners. This is compounded by a lack of access to trustworthy legal services, and an inability, without clean title to property, to tap into equity and government benefits.

## “Shark repellant” wards off developers

During the past decade, however, more than a dozen states have reformed these laws to create what some experts call “shark repellant.” The new laws make it harder for predatory land prospectors to strike low-ball deals with distant heirs.

The shift has begun to seep into how disputes are resolved in courts and in the public square.

For example, in rural Karnes County, Texas, a county court this summer adjudicated a long-running dispute between a white ranch family and the descendants of a Black family who both held title to land targeted by oil and gas prospectors.

The jury waded through the complex web of deeds, titles, and historical documents to find that the more than 100 descendants of the Black Eckford family were entitled to what may amount to substantial royalties from tapping the land.

Here in South Carolina, leaders in Beaufort County – which includes Hilton Head Island – took their own steps to help. In the 1990s, they created a heritage zoning overlay for neighboring St. Helena Island that bans gated communities and golf resorts. But this summer, a developer asked the local county commission to waive those restrictions to build a new golf course.

The developer, Elvio Tropeano, noted at a hearing that the association of a golf course with culture loss had created difficulties in explaining a project that he proposed as a “purpose-built community” that would be an engine for revitalization and include environmental and cultural conservation.

The county commission denied the request, stating that the overlay was intended to bar golf course development. Hundreds of locals appeared in opposition to the project at multiple hearings. Mr. Tropeano appealed.

Ms. Wright is now caught in the middle of a different project. The developer, who did not respond to the Monitor’s inquiries, claims in a lawsuit that parts of Ms. Wright’s house are on land already sold by other heirs. The family sees it as a ploy to force a sale. But local elected officials took note. The Hilton Head Town Council this summer halted all permitting on the project until the dispute is settled.

The history of Black land loss is particularly fraught here on the Sea Islands, a necklace of barrier islands that spills from North Carolina to Florida. A century ago, the region was a center of Black land wealth. Most owners were Gullah Geechee, descendants of formerly enslaved people brought to Charleston and Savannah from West Africa.

For decades, the islands were considered inhospitable, if not unlivable. Yet the Gullah Geechee thrived by fishing and farming, often in near-complete isolation. (As a result, many natives still retain a distinct brogue.) But the rise of air conditioning and mosquito control created powerful incentives to transform the islands.

## Barrier islands of white wealth

“All of a sudden, these places are where a lot of white wealth wants to be and wants to develop,” says Jessie White, the South Coast office director of the Coastal Conservation League in Beaufort, South Carolina. “A combination of multiple forces” led to rapid land loss.

Clouded titles often resulted from complicated heirs’ property laws. And skyrocketing property taxes created a growing burden that many could not afford.

“If the Native people are not able to afford to live in the paradise that they’ve lived in for generations, how is it considered paradise anymore?” says Luana M. Graves Sellars, founder of the Lowcountry Gullah, a nonprofit that assists families in protecting land. “How can you call it paradise if it’s only for someone else?”

In his book, “The Land Was Ours: How Black Beaches Became White Wealth in the Coastal South,” Andrew Kahrl, an African American studies professor at the University of Virginia, links the role of land ownership and development strategies along the Atlantic Coast to a broader struggle for economic empowerment for Black Americans.

The high rate of land loss, he writes, “causes us to reassess ... the slow, painful but nevertheless inexorable progress toward a just and equitable future.” In September, Black residents of the tiny Gullah-Geechee community on Georgia’s Sapelo Island sued to stop a new zoning that allows for bigger houses – and thus higher taxes that will push them off their land, they say.

Hilton Head “was the first great island to fall” to development, says Professor Thomson at Auburn, who studies the impacts of heirs’ property laws on communities.

Today, gated communities dominate Hilton Head’s beachfront and interior, while a few Gullah Geechee settlements remain tucked away on the island’s marsh side. Once-massive Black landholdings have been reduced to “crumbs,” says Ms. White, of the conservation council.

The 10,000 formerly enslaved people who remained on Hilton Head after the Civil War “knew that nothing in the United States was more important than land,” says Ms. Graves Sellars. “They understood the value of the land, but their blood, sweat, and tears are also in that land. Today, you can say a piece of property is worth a million dollars. Yet it’s priceless because of what went into it to provide the land for future generations.”

That is what Ms. Wright is fighting for. The Hilton Head Town Council putting a pause on development was a small victory. But Ms. Love Graves sees a bigger factor at work, too – South Carolinians’ desire to safeguard the value of home.

“We want to show ... that it’s possible to keep the land, generate wealth and live life on the land in peace,” she says.

# Exploring the power of civility to heal divides

### INTRODUCTION

What does it take to bring people out of their ideological corners? An understanding of how to move past “othering” and into a mindset of respect. That calls for the truest kind of civility, one that includes genuine engagement. Our culture writer covered a solution-seeker on this important social front. Then he brought her on our podcast to talk some more.

### QUICK READ

As the Monitor’s chief culture writer, Stephen Humphries stays open to a sprawling landscape of story ideas.

“I just like to be where conversations are happening,” he says on the Monitor’s “Why We Wrote This” podcast.

Lately that has meant exploring empathy gaps – situations where, in some cases, groups hail the misfortune and losses of those whom they view as their ideological foes. No-tolerance side-taking has emerged over everything from the Mideast conflict to stances on policing or vaccines.

That got Stephen talking to a solution-seeker on the matter of fraying human connections: Alexandra Hudson, author of “The Soul of Civility.” After his Q&A with Ms. Hudson, Stephen wanted to know more. So he asked her to join him on our podcast.

“It’s really easy and tempting ... to dehumanize the ‘other,’” Ms. Hudson says, “because it makes it easier to do or say what’s necessary in order to ‘win.’” But there’s also great potential in practicing “radical hospitality,” she says, to find a shared sense of common good.

“I am hopeful,” she says, “because I’ve spoken to thousands of people who are working to be part of the solutions in their every day.” Through the power of connection, she says, “we can reclaim the soul of civility and heal our broken world.” – Clayton Collins and Jingnan Peng

You can find more story links and a show transcript here.

# Behind China’s warm welcome of two US vets

### INTRODUCTION

This week, two American “Flying Tigers” who helped defend China from Japan in World War II are back in Beijing. They have been received like heroes. It might seem a small thing, but the U.S. and China believe ordinary citizens can help heal frayed relations. (We wrote about another example recently.) And there was no mistaking the Flying Tigers’ joy.

### QUICK READ

Capt. Harry Moyer and Tech. Sgt. Melvin “Mel” McMullen arrived in Beijing this week to much fanfare.

Authorities and regular Chinese embraced the veterans, who served in the “Flying Tigers,” the popular name for American pilots who helped defend China from Japanese invasion in World War II. In a widely published letter, Chinese leader Xi Jinping called for “a new generation of Flying Tigers” to advance U.S.-China relations.

Highlighting such bonds is part of a recent ramping up of people-to-people ties by China and the United States. Both sides hope the exchanges will add ballast as they work to stabilize relations and prepare for a highly anticipated meeting between Mr. Xi and President Joe Biden in November.

For the veterans, it was a chance to remind both Americans and Chinese of a powerful chapter in the countries’ shared history – one of extraordinary compassion and sacrifice. More than 2,000 members of the Flying Tigers gave their lives to defend China, while thousands of Chinese died protecting American pilots in distress, according to official Chinese figures.

“People are the same,” said Sergeant McMullen at a U.S. Embassy gathering on Monday. “Governments may be different, but the people actually always have one desire, and that is to live and to raise their families in peace.”

### DEEP_READ

Two American veterans who fought to defend China from Japan during World War II – retired Capt. Harry Moyer and retired Tech. Sgt. Melvin “Mel” McMullen – are flying high on a new mission.

In the 1940s, the young aviators joined the “Flying Tigers,” the popular name for Americans serving with the 14th Air Force in China, commanded by Maj. Gen. Claire Chennault. With the benefit of that long lens, the 103-year-old Captain Moyer and 98-year-old Sergeant McMullen arrived in Beijing this week hoping to remind both Americans and Chinese of a powerful chapter in the countries’ shared history – one of extraordinary compassion and sacrifice – and encourage grassroots contacts despite tensions between Washington and Beijing.

During dire combat moments in China, “we knew that the best way – maybe the only way – we could survive was to fly our plane ... far away from the target area so that we might be picked up by a brave villager,” Sergeant McMullen said Monday at a ceremony honoring the visiting Flying Tigers delegation at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing.

Highlighting such bonds is part of a recent ramping up of people-to-people ties by China and the United States. Both sides hope the exchanges will add ballast as they work to stabilize relations and prepare for a widely anticipated meeting – confirmed by the White House on Tuesday – between President Joe Biden and Chinese leader Xi Jinping in San Francisco in November.

Beyond possible agreements in areas such as counternarcotics, climate, travel, and technology, the U.S. and China have broad objectives for the meeting, experts say.

Washington hopes that a successful Biden-Xi meeting will “unlock, especially in the Chinese system ... [a] clear signal by Xi Jinping that it’s safe to engage with the Americans,” says Jude Blanchette, Freeman Chair in China Studies at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.

For its part, Beijing believes a meeting will “position Xi Jinping well domestically,” and that “stabilizing the relationship ... gives them a better chance to moderate future U.S. actions,” he says.

## Warm welcome

As U.S.-China relations have sharply deteriorated, public opinion has soured as well, with surveys indicating most Americans hold negative views of China, and vice versa.

Both governments are now are working to counter this trend by strengthening cultural, educational, and business exchanges. The U.S., for example, welcomed a Beijing dance troupe to perform at a Chinese cultural festival in Washington this past September, and Mr. Biden sent a letter of congratulations to the Chinese Americans who organized the event.

Mr. Xi has also publicly advocated for increased exchanges between ordinary Chinese and Americans in recent months. “In growing China-U.S. relations, the foundation lies in the people, and the hope,” he said last week.

When Captain Moyer, Sergeant McMullen, and Sino-American Aviation Heritage Foundation Chairman Jeffery Greene together sent a letter to Mr. Xi in advance of their China trip, Mr. Xi wrote back. His letter featured prominently in China’s state-run media.

“In the past, our two peoples fought the Japanese fascists together, and forged a deep friendship that withstood the test of blood and fire,” Mr. Xi wrote, according to a front-page article in People’s Daily, the Communist Party’s main mouthpiece. He called for “a new generation of Flying Tigers” to advance U.S.-China relations.

Against this backdrop, the visit this week by Captain Moyer and Sergeant McMullen created a bit of a Chinese media sensation. National television reports and posts on China’s popular social media platform Weibo showed them chatting with Vice President Han Zheng, strolling along the Great Wall in olive-green World War II bomber jackets, and saluting a statue of General Chennault, who died in 1958. Hailing the visit with unusually upbeat remarks, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin on Wednesday called on Chinese and Americans from all walks of life to help “write a new chapter” in U.S.-China cooperation.

## An enduring love

Fanfare aside, listening to Captain Moyer and Sergeant McMullen’s down-to-earth accounts of their wartime China service, one can’t miss the compassion they felt for ordinary Chinese – and received in return.

Growing up in Ohio, Captain Moyer loved visiting his father’s friend “Eddie,” a warmhearted Chinese man who ran a local restaurant. A 1937 film based on the novel “The Good Earth” by Pearl S. Buck also left a deep impression. “It depicted the Chinese peasants tending their rice fields ... and the greenness,” he told the embassy gathering. “I can’t get that picture out of my mind.”

When Japan launched a full-scale invasion of China in 1937, Captain Moyer was troubled by reports of Japanese atrocities. After being recruited in college by the U.S. Army Air Corps, he earned his fighter pilot wings, trained on the Curtiss P-40 “Warhawk,” and deployed with the 59th Fighter Squadron of the 33rd Fighter Group to combat German and Italian forces in North Africa and Italy. Then in 1944, when the 33rd received orders for the China-India-Burma theater, he had a chance to return to the U.S. – but, thinking of “Eddie” and the overall suffering of China’s people, he declined.

“I told the commanding officer, ‘I don’t want any orders to take me home. I’m going to go to China,’” he said. “And that’s what I did.”

Upon landing in Kunming, China, General Chennault greeted him and the other 14th Air Force recruits, leaving a big impression on Captain Moyer. From there he flew to Sichuan province, with the job of defending the B-29 bombers striking Japan’s islands. He saw the rice fields. Chinese people “were so friendly,” he said. “They took care of us.”

## “People are the same”

Sergeant McMullen, too, put his faith in Chinese villagers. An aerial gunner and assistant flight engineer, Sergeant McMullen was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for his service with the 14th Air Force’s 308th Bomber Group (Heavy), which flew B-24 Liberators in support of Chinese ground forces. He heard many stories of U.S. airmen being rescued after their planes went down.

“They would hide the airman by day, and by night, they would move him – from village to village – [until] they could finally be picked up by the Americans,” he told the embassy gathering.

Sheltering Americans was dangerous work. When most of the U.S. bombers involved in the 1942 Doolittle raid on Tokyo had to abandon their planes over eastern China, families there successfully safeguarded the airmen. But Japan later launched a brutal retaliation campaign, wiping out entire villages.

“There are hundreds of airmen that owe their life to those brave, brave people,” said Sergeant McMullen. “That’s something that we should all understand. People are the same. Governments may be different, but the people actually always have one desire, and that is to live and to raise their families in peace and in the customs of their predecessors.”

In all, more than 2,000 members of the Flying Tigers gave their lives to defend China, while thousands of Chinese died protecting American pilots in distress, according to official Chinese figures. General Chennault’s granddaughter, Nell Calloway, and Mr. Greene, from the Sino-American Aviation Heritage Foundation, work to educate young people in both countries about that shared sacrifice.

“Americans don’t know that story,” Ms. Calloway told the gathering.

Captain Moyer, too, has a soft spot for China’s people, under his tough exterior. Holding a Guinness World Record for being the oldest licensed pilot – he made a solo flight on his 100th birthday – the former Flying Tiger celebrated his 103rd birthday in Beijing on Monday, cutting a cake decorated with the blue-and-orange Flying Tiger emblem.

Returning once again to China, he said, “is just like putting on an old coat. ... It’s a great feeling. They put out their hearts for you.”

# Green energy’s green light

### QUICK READ

The transition to a green energy future required a long prologue as scientists and engineers sought efficient ways to harness wind, sunlight, and other renewable sources of power to curb climate change. Now that future may depend on tapping forces more commonly associated with building democracy than with developing technology.

That’s because green projects like wind turbines and solar farms, and new runs of high-tension power lines, face regulatory hurdles and opposition from diverse groups, calling on civic virtues such as listening, honesty, and fairness.

New polls show that more Americans may be willing to live near energy-producing infrastructure. One reason is that power producers are learning how to win over communities through patient engagement.

A transition from fossil fuels is increasingly feasible because of technology advances. Public support is also helping that transition, driven by the light of patience and respect.

### DEEP_READ

The transition to a green energy future required a long prologue as scientists and engineers sought efficient ways to harness wind, sunlight, and other renewable sources of power to curb climate change. Now that future may depend on tapping forces more commonly associated with building democracy than with developing technology.

That’s because green projects like wind turbines and solar farms, and new runs of high-tension power lines, face regulatory hurdles and opposition from diverse groups, calling on civic virtues such as listening, honesty, and fairness.

New polls show that more Americans may be willing to live near energy-producing infrastructure. One reason is that power producers are learning how to win over communities through patient engagement. Some critics of such projects “just don’t want it because they don’t want it,” Lisa Grow, CEO of Idaho Power, told the Los Angeles Times. So much of that resistance, she said, is based on misunderstanding. “But for people that have specific needs, I think it is worth the time to have a process where they can be invited in, and you can deal with some of those things upfront. If you wait until the end, you just have a fight.”

In a poll published Thursday, the LA Times and the University of California, Berkeley found that 56% of Californian voters support installing wind turbines in their communities. Even more (69%) say they would welcome solar farms. Almost double the number (52% versus 27%) back offshore offshore wind turbines visible from their beaches.

Those views are even more widely upheld in polls across the United States. A Washington Post-University of Maryland poll in July found that more than 70% of Americans said they would be comfortable with solar farms and wind turbines in their communities. Engaging opponents of such projects, Doug Vine, director of energy analysis at the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions, told The Washington Post, is “the secret sauce in making sure that these things come together.”

That idea is now the focus of a new course at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the first of its kind to focus on energy regulatory reform in the context of engaging communities. Larry Susskind, the professor who designed the course, argues that ignoring community concerns creates acrimony. The course looks for solutions to what often causes projects to stall – such as misinformation or concerns about environmental injustice. A listening-first approach for regulators in granting permits for new projects may seem simplistic, but it is winning converts.

“A lack of perceived fairness and equity, particularly in the decision-making processes at the local level, increases opposition” to proposed new energy projects, a group of researchers at UC Santa Barbara concluded in a paper published in September. That underscores the value of enabling the full range of stakeholders in a community to feel heard, they wrote.

A transition from fossil fuels is increasingly feasible because of technology advances. Public support is also helping that transition, driven by the light of patience and respect.

# You don’t have to be lonely

### QUICK READ

Seeing ourselves and others as children of God, infinite Love, is a powerful basis for overcoming loneliness, as a woman experienced while traveling after her husband passed on.

### DEEP_READ

My husband and I had talked about celebrating a landmark anniversary with a trip abroad, but he passed away before we could implement a plan. Going alone felt as if it might be too big of an undertaking. But through prayer, I came to realize that I could travel solo.

The internet helped me work through the logistics of the trip, but heartfelt prayer is what really prepared me. Even though I would be traveling independently, I knew that I would not really be alone. God is with us every moment. God is our very best friend and constantly tells all of us who we are as His precious, perfect children. He loves us and provides only good for each of us. God is Spirit, and as His image and likeness, we are spiritual, lacking nothing.

Especially after my husband’s passing, I felt impelled actively to pray about the loneliness so many seem to feel these days. An understanding of our unity with God, who is Love, and with one another as God’s sons and daughters, helps us break through feelings of isolation and loneliness. Such darkness can’t exist in the realm of divine Love, which is where we all truly live.

The Bible says, “Ye are all the children of light, and the children of the day: we are not of the night, nor of darkness” (I Thessalonians 5:5). We are never stuck. We can let the light of Love dispel any false sense of darkness.

Mortal mind, a seeming mentality apart from God, would say that we can be alienated or isolated from God and His offspring. However, through prayer and God-impelled action, we can prove that those suggestions are lies. Instead of accepting them, as we embrace spiritual reality, we come to know and feel that everyone is included in and connected through the infinite Love that is God. No one is solitary or left out.

Because our true habitation is Love, a natural antidote to loneliness is expressing the unselfed love inherent in each of us. A passage from “Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures” speaks to this connectedness: “Happiness is spiritual, born of Truth and Love. It is unselfish; therefore it cannot exist alone, but requires all mankind to share it” (Mary Baker Eddy, p. 57). An unselfish approach inspired by Love helps us peck open our shell of isolation.

As we feel God’s great love for each of us, we can generously share joy and love with everyone we meet. We may find ourselves in different cultures with different languages and customs, but in truth we are all brothers and sisters – created to express God’s love and care, each innately understanding the universal language of love.

In this light, it’s natural to reach out to help others, and for others to reach out to help us, in ways that bring comfort and peace.

For example, when I was traveling, people quickly came to my aid as I struggled with my cumbersome suitcase. And I had many meaningful encounters throughout the trip. In fact, I found that as I prayerfully embraced everyone as the offspring of divine Love, I didn’t feel lonely at all! I felt God’s great love for me and shared His love with everyone I met. How could I be lonely?

Many years ago I heard an allegory in which there are two scenes of people eating with gigantic chopsticks. In the first scene, the diners are trying, unsuccessfully, to eat alone using the unwieldy tools, but in the second scene, everyone is helping his neighbor. The first scene represents hell, and the second scene depicts heaven.

This story illustrates that what’s in our hearts, even more than our outward circumstances, contributes to the quality of our lives. As a poem by Mary Baker Eddy says, “It matters not what be thy lot, / So Love doth guide” (“Poems,” p. 79). When we recognize the spiritual Love that is all around, we experience heaven wherever we are.

# Storm surge

### INTRODUCTION

Thank you for joining us today. As we head into the weekend, we’re excited to unveil on Monday a new series about the Climate Generation. This is young people around the world who have come of age during the climate crisis and have been shaped by it, but not defeated. We’ll look at young people from Bangladesh to Namibia who have resolved to be a part of the solution – indeed, to lead a revolution in how the world thinks.

Come back next week to read more.

